Fix incorrect field name (#813)
redpanda-data/documentation: modules/get-started/pages/licensing/overview.adoc

= Redpanda Licenses, Editions, and Enterprise Features
:description: Redpanda Self-Managed is free and source-available at the Redpanda GitHub repo. Additional features are included with an Enterprise license.
:page-aliases: introduction:licenses.adoc, get-started:licenses.adoc

> Redpanda Self-Managed, Redpanda Console, and Redpanda Connect are available in either the Community Edition or the Enterprise Edition. Each product has its own binary, and each binary, both the Community Edition and Enterprise Edition are supported. Features in the Enterprise Edition (enterprise features) are only accessible with a valid license key.

Reviewer: That sentence didn't make sense to me. I think this is what you meant:
```suggestion
Redpanda Self-Managed, Redpanda Console, and Redpanda Connect are available in either the Community Edition or the Enterprise Edition. Each product has its own binary, and each binary supports both the Community Edition and Enterprise Edition. Features in the Enterprise Edition (enterprise features) are only accessible with a valid license key.
```

= Redpanda Licenses, Editions, and Enterprise Features

> :description: Redpanda Self-Managed is free and source-available at the Redpanda GitHub repo. Additional features are included with an Enterprise license.

Reviewer 2: This page description (and therefore the index page) suggested to me that only licensing etc for the "core" Redpanda product would be included, but the introduction also mentions the Redpanda Console and Redpanda Connect. Would it be worth updating? Also, should there be a link to the GItHub repo, or has this been intentionally left out so that users need to go to the page and read the details?

Author: ```suggestion
:description: Learn about Redpanda licensing for Self-Managed, Console, and Connect, available in both Community and Enterprise editions. Understand licensing requirements and how to access enterprise features with a valid license key.
```

Author: This description gets used as the meta description for search engines. It can't include links.

:page-aliases: introduction:licenses.adoc, get-started:licenses.adoc

> Redpanda Self-Managed, Redpanda Console, and Redpanda Connect are available in either the Community Edition or the Enterprise Edition. Each product has its own binary, and each binary supports both the Community Edition and Enterprise Edition. Features in the Enterprise Edition (enterprise features) are only accessible with a valid license key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Redpanda Self-Managed, Redpanda Console, and Redpanda Connect are available in a Community Edition and an Enterprise Edition. Each product has its own binary, and each binary supports both the Community Edition and Enterprise Edition. To access features in the Enterprise Edition (enterprise features), you need a valid license key.
```
Just a suggestion... I just found that saying _the_ Community Edition etc upfront suggested that you already know what it is. But, equally "a community edition" would not require capitalisation.

Author: ```suggestion
Redpanda Self-Managed, Redpanda Console, and Redpanda Connect are available in community and enterprise editions. Each product has a single binary that supports both editions. You need a valid license key to access enterprise features, which are only available in the Enterprise Edition.
```

Author: cc @asimms41 does this work better?

> Redpanda Self-Managed, Redpanda Console, and Redpanda Connect are available in community and enterprise editions. Each product has a single binary that supports both editions. You need a valid license key to access enterprise features, which are only available in the Enterprise Edition.

Author: ```suggestion
Redpanda Self-Managed, Redpanda Console, and Redpanda Connect are available in community and enterprise editions. Each product has a single binary that supports both editions.
```

* Redpanda Community Edition is free and source-available on GitHub:
** https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda[Redpanda Self-Managed^]
** https://github.com/redpanda-data/console[Redpanda Console^]
** https://github.com/redpanda-data/connect[Redpanda Connect^]
* Redpanda Enterprise Edition requires a license key and includes additional features.

[NOTE]
====
Redpanda Cloud is a managed deployment of Redpanda Enterprise Edition. To learn more about Redpanda Cloud, see the xref:redpanda-cloud:get-started:cloud-overview.adoc[].
====

== Community Edition

> Community Edition is licensed with the Redpanda https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/blob/dev/licenses/bsl.md[Business Source License^] (BSL). These core features are free and source-available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Community Edition is licensed with the Redpanda https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/blob/dev/licenses/bsl.md[Business Source License^] (BSL). These core features are free and source-available.
```
Just to be consistent with intro.

[NOTE]
====
* Users cannot provide Redpanda as a commercial streaming or queuing service to others.
* The BSL code converts to Apache 2.0 licensing four years after each code merge.
====

== Enterprise Edition

> Enterprise Edition is licensed with the https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/blob/dev/licenses/rcl.md[Redpanda Community License^] (RCL). It includes the free features licensed under the Redpanda BSL, as well as enterprise features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Enterprise Edition is licensed with the https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/blob/dev/licenses/rcl.md[Redpanda Community License^] (RCL). It includes the free features licensed under the Redpanda BSL, as well as enterprise features.
```

=== License keys

Enterprise features require an Enterprise Edition license key, sometimes referred to as Enterprise license, license key, or license. You can evaluate enterprise features with a free 30-day trial. To request a trial license key, to extend your trial period, or to purchase a license, contact https://redpanda.com/try-redpanda?section=enterprise-trial[Redpanda Sales^].

[[self-managed]]
=== Enterprise features in Redpanda Self-Managed

The following enterprise features for Redpanda Self-Managed are activated with a valid Enterprise Edition license key:

> include::get-started:partial$licensing/enterprise-features.adoc[tag=self-managed]

Reviewer 2: Might be outside of this review but the Kerberos link just lands users on the very long authentication page. It would be great to take them to the right section.

[[console]]
=== Enterprise features in Redpanda Console

The following enterprise features for Redpanda Console are activated with a valid Enterprise Edition license key:

include::get-started:partial$licensing/enterprise-features.adoc[tag=console]

[[connect]]
=== Enterprise features in Redpanda Connect

> The following enterprise features for Redpanda Connect are activated with a valid Enterprise Edition license key:

Author: ```suggestion
```

> include::get-started:partial$licensing/enterprise-features.adoc[tag=connect]

Reviewer 2: What happens with all other connectors/components that are marked as Enterprise? Also, not sure why these components are not marked as Enterprise in this preview.

Author: We should have a single place that lists them all. Maybe we should host that in a partial in the `rp-connect-docs` repo? or I can simply link to the connector catalog and filter on enterprise connectors.

> == How Redpanda Console handles licenses

Reviewer 2: Just wondering if this should be a separate page?

Author: I originally had it as a separate page but it felt strange to send users to yet another location to learn about licensing. We could add it as a separate page or move it to the Console overview page maybe?

@weeco curious what your thoughts are too.

Reviewer 2: I wrote this comment at the start of my review before I saw the docs in the Console section (which is far more hidden). Maybe leave as is for beta and see what the feedback is?

> If Redpanda Console cannot find a valid license either locally or in the connected Redpanda cluster, it shuts down. Redpanda Console tries to load a valid license at startup in the following order:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Redpanda Console cannot find a valid license either locally or in the connected Redpanda cluster, it shuts down. Redpanda Console tries to load a valid license for community or enterprise features at startup in the following order:
```
Just a suggestion so that you don't need the sentence after the bullets.

. From the local configuration file or environment variables.
. From the connected Redpanda cluster (if available).

> Either method can be used to enable Redpanda Console enterprise features. Redpanda Console displays warnings in the following scenarios:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Redpanda Console displays warnings in the following scenarios:
```

- *Upcoming license expiration*: Redpanda Console checks the license status at startup. If the license expires within 30 days, a warning is displayed in the UI. Redpanda Console also logs the license details at startup, including the expiration date. For example:
+
[,json]
----
{"level":"info","msg":"successfully loaded Redpanda Enterprise license","license_org":"redpanda","license_type":"enterprise","expires_at":"Oct 12 2024"}
----

> - *Enterprise features in Redpanda cluster without a valid license*: If the Redpanda cluster is using enterprise features without a valid license, Redpanda Console displays a warning specifying the features in use without proper licensing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Redpanda Self-Managed enterprise features are in use without a valid license*: If the Redpanda cluster is using enterprise features without a valid license, Redpanda Console displays a warning specifying the features in use without proper licensing.
```

> - *Redpanda Console enterprise features without a valid license*: If you configure enterprise features in Redpanda Console without a valid license, Redpanda Console shuts down and logs a warning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Redpanda Console enterprise features in use without a valid license*: If you configure enterprise features in Redpanda Console without a valid license, Redpanda Console shuts down and logs a warning.
```
